Now let's talk about user journey map and I have been asked from a lot of students what these are and
they are actually a simple map and diagram of things your customer is going through while they are engaging
with your company your services your product your web app your mobile app and also we are going to pinpoint
different improvement areas because it is just like you went to a doctor and the doctor asks you where
do you have the pain right now.
Tell me this area.
So you are going to point to your abdomen that I have been over here and you don't know whether there
is stomach in the OR you have intestinal pain or whatever you have that is going to be decided by the
doctor.
So they are going to ask more questions that how are you feeling right now what is the level of the
pain and things like that.
So they are going to.
So in this usage any map actually we are pinpointing our major pain areas.
It is just like a doctor investigating a patient and seeing well actually the pain resides.
So we want to see in which section of our into our whole user journey map where our customer is actually
ordering something or from the point he sees our ad online.
So from the time he actually become aware of our product you if you remember the awareness the model
we discuss user lifecycle model and we are going to see that how actually the user took those steps
and where actually they started feeling pain.
Now what are actually different benefits of user journey maps.
They are very obvious and I have already talked about them higher customer satisfaction or user satisfaction
if we remove the pain of any person or if a doctor gives a medicine to any person.
There will always be thankful they will be more satisfied with the doctor same our customers our users
there will be more satisfied satisfied lower customer turnout or Joan generate is actually customers
leaving after using your app for four four or five days.
So we will have less turnover.
We want to see that VA is the point where we are losing our customers.
It is also similar somewhat similar to our user lifecycle funnel and we will have more sales if we have
more customer satisfied satisfaction.
We will have more sales.
Similarly we will be pinpointing customer pain areas.
This is actually a very wide diagram.
Customer usage any map that can be applied to service industry where you are giving services to your
customers.
They can be they can be applied to restaurants they can be applied to hotels any schools anything.
This is a very great.
You can say user experience tool and design tool you can use to pinpoint where are the pins and how
we are going to eliminate them.
Now if we look at the example of my user Jenny map for my frock land and e-commerce store you can see
the first interaction will be how my customer actually phoned my store what they what they were clicking
on a Facebook ad or they found it from a friend then how she interacted with my website.
What was her first interaction how happy she was when she interacted for the first time.
Why did you she decide to choose the clothes how whether does she called her friend in the process or
she called the help line in the process or how actually she ordered those clothes whether she was using
mobile app or she was using my web app or website whether there were some delays in the delivery so
you can see if you are creating a digital product there will always be some other touch points like
calling the help line which is not digital it is calling people calling other people so we need to check
how satisfaction satisfied all our customers at different touch points how actually they actually selected
any other website why they left our website what was their frustrations what were their feelings are
they happy what they left alone in the end things like that.
So this is all our user journey map every user journey map have some essential parts and these are actually
actions what actually users are doing it is similar to somewhat what we have covered in empathy maps
Martin at that point we were more interested in what users emotions are and what they are thinking and
doing so this is this is a bit different here we are actually checking where the problem resides in
our whole process with an interaction with our customer.
So we have motivation what is the reason behind that action what while why they were motivated to click
by now and things like that then what are the frustrations what are the issues that are happening at
that touchpoint point for example at checkout they might not be able to checkout using their email because
they don't have any email barriers so why they are not purchasing that dress maybe the price is too
high or maybe the button is disabled they don't know whether the stock is low or whatever the reason
they don't know how to you know get past that then the opportunities.
So opportunities us.
The things we can improve.
These are the areas are improvements we can make in each touchpoint or each section of our users.
Now here is a customer journey map and this is my customer journey map for frog land and you can see
here we have one user persona that is attached to it.
So on the top of your usage any map you have to show that this persona is attached to this journey map
and along with that we also want to show what actually the goals and motivations are.
What is the scope of this journey map whether we are testing the whole lab we are testing the sign up
we are testing the check out or we are testing some fun adding things to the card and viewing that Card
card things like that so you can see here we have.
The first is first impressions you can also started from maybe from the awareness of the product where
they got fostered click the Facebook image or things like that you can start from there you can show
your customer or your user that we have this ad and you are going to start from here.
So let them start from here and give them to task what they are going to do.
So you can also interview your already you know old customers are all users which are already using
your app.
You can ask them what their what their feelings are or frustrations are during this whole process.
So touch points are first impressions searching for dresses selection process adding to cart and checkout.
So this is I am actually checking first impressions to the checkout.
So this is actually the whole journey of ordering customer new customer order.
So actually this whole process is related to new customer order.
You can see you here.
I have written in our head new customer order in my scope so these are different touch points I'm showing
what the user is doing.
These are the actions users started taking.
You can see you here and these are all the actions at the top than these are the feelings what how they
are feeling really smiley face first impressions were great then they then next when they were searching
they were not feeling very well selection process what not was okay.
Okay.
And this is very bad because they're stuck over here and they were not able to you know check out easily
so here we have the opportunities here we have the frustrations that what were the problems that happened
or what were the barriers that they faced during this whole process then what are the opportunities
we can you know count on we can improve these things to make it more user friendly and make it user
centered and we will have more satisfied customer.
So this is a very simple map.
I am sharing all these templates and all these files with you so you can download them and use them
in your own user expense design process.
I hope you have enjoyed this lesson.
If you have any questions do ask me.
Let's move on to the next lesson.